Add understanding results page (#6984)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _benchmark/user-guide/understanding-results.md

---
layout: default

> title: Understanding results

Author: "Understanding benchmark results?" What do you think @IanHoang

> title: Understanding results

Author: ```suggestion
title: Understanding benchmark results
```

nav_order: 22
parent: User guide
---

> At the end of each test run, a summary table is produced which includes metrics like service time, throughput, latency and more. These metrics provide insights into how the workload selected performed on a benchmarked OpenSearch cluster.

Reviewer: a summary results table

Reviewer: on an OpenSearch cluster

> At the end of each test run, a summary table is produced which includes metrics like service time, throughput, latency and more. These metrics provide insights into how the workload selected performed on a benchmarked OpenSearch cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
At the end of each test run, a summary table is produced which includes metrics like service time, throughput, latency, and more. These metrics provide insights into how the workload selected performed on a benchmarked OpenSearch cluster.
```

> At the end of each test run, a summary table is produced which includes metrics like service time, throughput, latency, and more. These metrics provide insights into how the workload selected performed on a benchmarked OpenSearch cluster.

Author: @hdhalter: Is this better?

```suggestion
At the end of each test run, OpenSearch Benchmark creates summary of test results metrics like service time, throughput, latency, and more. These metrics provide insights into how the workload selected performed on a benchmarked OpenSearch cluster.
```

> The following guide gives information about how to understand the results of the summary report.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following guide provides information about how to understand the results of the summary report.
```

> The following guide gives information about to understand the results of the summary report and what steps to take before running another test on your cluster.

Reviewer: about how to understand the summary results

Reviewer: I think we can also remove "what steps to take before running another test on your cluster" as that's not found here.

## OpenSearch Benchmark runs

> OpenSearch Benchmark runs a series of nightly tests targeting the overall OpenSearch development cluster. These runs can be found on https://opensearch.org/benchmarks. It compares several metrics across different test runs targeting both recent and future versions of OpenSearch.

Author: This is specific to the link provided in the paragraph. It only applies as an example and not as the standard for summary reports. In the orginal draft, this section was at the bottom and included a disclaimer similar to the following, "Use the nightly benchmark runs as an example of how to present your benchmark results in OpenSearch Dashboards."

> OpenSearch Benchmark runs a series of nightly tests targeting the OpenSearch development cluster. The results of these test runs can be found on https://opensearch.org/benchmarks. The results show the metrics that span different test runs and target both recent and future versions of OpenSearch.

Reviewer 3: Can we define 'runs' here if that is the terminology that we are using for the nightly test? OpenSearch Benchmark runs are the nightly tests that target the OS dev cluster..."

> OpenSearch Benchmark runs a series of nightly tests targeting the OpenSearch development cluster. The results of these test runs can be found on https://opensearch.org/benchmarks. The results show the metrics that span different test runs and target both recent and future versions of OpenSearch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenSearch Benchmark runs a series of nightly tests targeting the OpenSearch development cluster. The results of these test runs can be found at https://opensearch.org/benchmarks. The results display metrics spanning different test runs and target both recent and future versions of OpenSearch.
```

> OpenSearch Benchmark runs a series of nightly tests targeting the OpenSearch development cluster. The results of these test runs can be found on https://opensearch.org/benchmarks. The results show the metrics that span different test runs and target both recent and future versions of OpenSearch.

Author: ```suggestion
OpenSearch Benchmark team runs nightly tests targeting the OpenSearch development cluster, comparing throughput and latency numbers for both recent and future versions of OpenSearch. The results of these tests can be found on https://opensearch.org/benchmarks. 
```

Author: Let me know what you think of this @hdhalter

Reviewer 3: Yes, good to provide the distinction! Just add 'the'. The OpenSearch Benchmark team runs nightly tests..."

> ## Selecting metrics to compare

Author: The section is meant to help guide users towards finding the metrics important for them, so while there isn't a step through, whats important to users will be different depending on their use case. 

Lets get @natebower take on this.

The original section title was ## Important metrics

> ## Selecting metrics to compare

Reviewer 2: I like "Summary report metrics".

> ## Selecting metrics to compare

Author: ```suggestion
## Summary report metrics
```

> While an OpenSearch Benchmark summary report provides many metrics related to the performance of your cluster, how to compare and use those metrics depends on your use case. Some users might be interested in the number of documents their can index, while another might be interested in the amount of latency or service time it takes for a document to be queried. For example, during the OpenSearch Benchmark nightly runs, the OpenSearch teams pulls metrics similar to the following summary report:

Author: Switched to "during a typical workload run."

> While an OpenSearch Benchmark summary report provides metrics related to the performance of your cluster, how to compare and use those metrics depends on your use case. For example, some users might be interested in the number of documents the workload can index, while another might be interested in the amount of latency or service time it takes for a document to be queried. The following example shows a summary report with metrics during a typical workload run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While an OpenSearch Benchmark summary report provides metrics related to the performance of your cluster, how you compare and use those metrics depends on your use case. For example, some users might be interested in the number of documents the workload can index, while another might be interested in the amount of latency or service time needed for a document to be queried. The following example summary report shows metrics for a typical workload run:
```

> While an OpenSearch Benchmark summary report provides many metrics related to the performance of your cluster, how to compare and use those metrics depends on your use case. Some users might be interested in the number of documents their can index, while another might be interested in how much latency it takes to query a document. For example, during the OpenSearch Benchmark nightly runs, the OpenSearch teams pulls metrics similar to the following summary report:

Reviewer: latency or service time

> While an OpenSearch Benchmark summary report provides many metrics related to the performance of your cluster, how to compare and use those metrics depends on your use case. Some users might be interested in the number of documents their can index, while another might be interested in how much latency it takes to query a document. For example, during the OpenSearch Benchmark nightly runs, the OpenSearch teams pulls metrics similar to the following summary report:

Author: ```suggestion
While an OpenSearch Benchmark summary report provides many metrics related to the performance of your cluster, how to compare and use those metrics depends on your use case. Some users might be interested in the number of documents their can index, while another might be interested in the amount of latency or service time it takes for a document to be queried. For example, during the OpenSearch Benchmark nightly runs, the OpenSearch teams pulls metrics similar to the following summary report:
```

|                                                     error rate |                                  match_all |           0 |      % |

[...]

|                                                 Min Throughput |                                       term |        16.1 |  ops/s |
|                                                Mean Throughput |                                       term |        16.1 |  ops/s |
|                                              Median Throughput |                                       term |        16.1 |  ops/s |
|                                                 Max Throughput |                                       term |        16.1 |  ops/s |
|                                       100th percentile latency |                                       term |     131.798 |     ms |
|                                  100th percentile service time |                                       term |     69.5237 |     ms |
|                                                     error rate |                                       term |           0 |      % |
```

> Metrics unique to the cluster begin at the `index` task line. The following two use cases can give you an idea of what metrics might be relevant to you:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Metrics that are unique to the cluster begin at the `index` task line. The following two use cases are examples of metrics that might be relevant to you:
```

> Metrics that are unique to the cluster begin at the `index` task line. The following two use cases are examples of metrics that might be relevant to you:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Metrics that are unique to the cluster begin at the `index` task line. The following are examples of metrics that might be relevant to you:
```

> The unique metrics to yhe cluster begin at the `index` task line. The following two use cases can give you an idea of what metrics might be relevant to you:

Reviewer: yhe -> the

> The unique metrics to yhe cluster begin at the `index` task line. The following two use cases can give you an idea of what metrics might be relevant to you:

Author: ```suggestion
Metrics unique to the cluster begin at the `index` task line. The following two use cases can give you an idea of what metrics might be relevant to you:
```

> - To assess how much load your cluster can handle, the `index` task metrics provide the number of documents ingested during the workload run, as well as the ingestion error rate. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- To assess how much load your cluster can handle, the `index` task metrics provide the number of documents ingested during the workload run as well as the ingestion error rate. 
```

> - To assess how fast you can query against documents in your cluster, the `match_all` and `term` give both the number of query operations performed per second and the measurable latency of the query.

Reviewer: the measurable latency and service time of the query

Reviewer: Maybe add additional point about error rate associated with the ingesting documents and running query operations should be added to both points.

> - To assess how fast you can query against documents in your cluster, the `match_all` and `term` give both the number of query operations performed per second and the measurable latency of the query.

Author: ```suggestion
- To assess the measurable latency and service time of the queries in the workload, the `match_all` and `term` give both the number of query operations performed per second and the measurable latency of the query.
```

> - To assess the measurable latency and service time of the queries in the workload, the `match_all` and `term` give both the number of query operations performed per second and the measurable latency of the query, as well as the error rate when running query operations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- To assess the measurable latency and service time of the queries in the workload, the `match_all` and `term` tasks provide both the number of query operations performed per second and the measurable latency of the query, as well as the error rate when running query operations.
```

> - To assess the measurable latency and service time of the queries in the workload, the `match_all` and `term` tasks provide both the number of query operations performed per second and the measurable latency of the query, as well as the error rate when running query operations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- To assess the measurable latency and service time of the queries in the workload, the `match_all` and `term` tasks provide both the number of query operations performed per second and the measurable latency of the query as well as the error rate when running query operations.
```

> - To assess the measurable latency and service time of the queries in the workload, the `match_all` and `term` tasks provide both the number of query operations performed per second and the measurable latency of the query, as well as the error rate when running query operations.

Reviewer 2: "...provide the number of query operations performed per second, the measurable query latency, and the query operation error rate"?

> ## Result storage

Reviewer: SUPER Nit: Result -> Results

> ## Result storage

Author: ```suggestion
## Results storage
```

> ## Results storage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Storing results
```

> Results from OpenSearch Benchmark are stored in-memory or in an external metric store. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenSearch Benchmark results are stored in-memory or in external storage. 
```

> Results from OpenSearch Benchmark are stored in two ways, either in-memory or in an external metric store. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Results from OpenSearch Benchmark are stored in-memory or in an external metric store. 
```

> When stored in-memory, results can be found in the `/.benchmark/benchmarks/test_executions/<test_execution_id>` directory. Results are named based off of the `test_execution_id` given to the workload test during its last run. 

Author: ```suggestion
When stored in-memory, results can be found in the `/.benchmark/benchmarks/test_executions/<test_execution_id>` directory. Results are named based off of the `test_execution_id` given to the workload test during its most recent run. 
```

> When stored in-memory, results can be found in the `/.benchmark/benchmarks/test_executions/<test_execution_id>` directory. Results are named based off of the `test_execution_id` given to the workload test during its last run. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When stored in-memory, results are found in the `/.benchmark/benchmarks/test_executions/<test_execution_id>` directory. The name of the result is based on the `test_execution_id` given to the workload test during its most recent run. 
```

> When stored in-memory, results can be found in the `/.benchmark/benchmarks/test_executions/<test_execution_id>` directory. Results are named based off of the `test_execution_id` given to the workload test during its most recent run. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When stored in-memory, results can be found in the `/.benchmark/benchmarks/test_executions/<test_execution_id>` directory. Results are named in accordance with the `test_execution_id` of the most recent workload test. 
```

> While [running a test](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/benchmark/reference/commands/execute-test/#general-settings), you can also customize where the results are stored, using any combination of the following command flags:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While [running a test](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/benchmark/reference/commands/execute-test/#general-settings), you can customize where the results are stored using any combination of the following command flags:
```

> * `--results-file`: When provided a file path, writes the compare results to the file indicated in the path.

Reviewer: the compare results --> the summary results

> * `--results-format`: Defines the output format for the command line results, either markdown or csv. Default is `markdown`.

Author: ```suggestion
* `--results-format`: Defines the output format for the command line results, either `markdown` or `csv`. Default is `markdown`.
```

> * `--results-format`: Defines the output format for the command line results, either `markdown` or `csv`. Default is `markdown`.

Reviewer: command line results -> summary report

> * `--results-format`: Defines the output format for the command line results, either `markdown` or `csv`. Default is `markdown`.

Author: ```suggestion
* `--results-format`: Defines the output format for the summary report results, either `markdown` or `csv`. Default is `markdown`.
```

> * `--show-in-results`: Determines whether or not to include a comparison to previous runs in the results file. 

Reviewer: ```
  --show-in-results {available,all-percentiles,all}
                        Define which values are shown in the summary publish (default: available).
```
Allows users to define which values are shown in the summary results

> * `--show-in-results`: Determines whether or not to include a comparison to previous runs in the results file. 

Author: ```suggestion
* `--show-in-results`:  Defines which values are shown in the published summary report, either `available`, `all-percentiles`, or `all`. Default is `available`.
```

> * `--show-in-results`:  Defines which values are shown in the published summary report, either `available`, `all-percentiles`, or `all`. Default is `available`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `--show-in-results`: Defines which values are shown in the published summary report, either `available`, `all-percentiles`, or `all`. Default is `available`.
```

> * `--user-tag`: Defines user-specific key-value pairs to be used in metric record as meta information, for example, `intention:baseline-ticket-12345`.

Reviewer: We can also add how this is useful if storing in external metric stores

> * `--user-tag`: Defines user-specific key-value pairs to be used in metric record as meta information, for example, `intention:baseline-ticket-12345`.

Author: ```suggestion
* `--user-tag`: Defines user-specific key-value pairs to be used in the metric record as meta information, for example, `intention:baseline-ticket-12345`. This is useful when storing metrics and results in an external metric store.
```

> * `--user-tag`: Defines user-specific key-value pairs to be used in the metric record as meta information, for example, `intention:baseline-ticket-12345`. This is useful when storing metrics and results in an external metric store.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `--user-tag`: Defines user-specific key-value pairs used in the metrics record as meta information, for example, `intention:baseline-ticket-12345`. This is useful when storing metrics and results in external storage.
```
